Improve authentication, authorization, and accounting for a small
business

Activity Overview

In this activity, you will assess the access controls used by a
business. You'll analyze their current process, identify issues, and
make recommendations to improve their security practices.

Previously, you learned that **access controls** are security controls
that manage access, authorization, and accountability of information.
Authentication controls are used to verify who someone is, whereas
authorization controls are used to grant a user permissions and set
limits on the things they're allowed to do. When done well, access
controls are the key to decreasing the likelihood of a security risk.

Be sure to complete this activity before moving on. The next course item
will provide you with a completed exemplar to compare to your own work.

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

You're the first cybersecurity professional hired by a growing business.

Recently, a deposit was made from the business to an unknown bank
account. The finance manager says they didn't make a mistake.
Fortunately, they were able to stop the payment. The owner has asked you
to investigate what happened to prevent any future incidents.

To do this, you'll need to do some accounting on the incident to better
understand what happened. First, you will review the access log of the
incident. Next, you will take notes that can help you identify a
possible threat actor. Then, you will spot issues with the access
controls that were exploited by the user. Finally, you will recommend
mitigations that can improve the business\' access controls and reduce
the likelihood that this incident reoccurs.

Step-By-Step Instructions

Follow the instructions and answer the question below to complete the
activity. Then, go to the next course item to compare your work to a
completed exemplar.

**Step 1: Access the template**

**Access control worksheet**

+--------------+--------------------+----------------+----------------+
|              | **Note(s)**        | **Issue(s)**   | **Recom        |
|              |                    |                | mendation(s)** |
+==============+====================+================+================+
| **Author     | **Objectives: Make | **Objective:   | **Objective:   |
| ization/Auth | 1-2 notes of       | Based on your  | Make at least  |
| entication** | information that   | notes, list    | 1              |
|              | can help identify  | 1-2            | recommendation |
|              | the threat:**      | authorization  | that could     |
|              |                    | issues:**      | prevent this   |
|              | **. Who caused     |                | kind of        |
|              | this incident?**   | **. What level | incident:**    |
|              |                    | of access did  |                |
|              | **. When did it    | the user       | **. which      |
|              | occur?**           | have?**        | technical,     |
|              |                    |                | operational,   |
|              | **. What device    | **. Should     | or managerial  |
|              | was used?**        | their account  | controls could |
|              |                    | be active?**   | help?**        |
+--------------+--------------------+----------------+----------------+

**Step 2: Access supporting materials**

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity.
Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps.Â 

  -- ---------------------- ---- ---- ------ ----- ------------- ---- ---- -----
     Event Type:                                                           
     Information                                                           

     Event Source:                                                         
     AdsmEmployeeService                                                   

     Event Category: None                                                  

     Event ID: 1227                                                        

     Date: 10/03/2023                                                      

     Time: 8:29:57 AM                                                      

     User:                                                                 
     Legal\\Administrator                                                  

     Computer: Up2-NoGud                                                   

     IP: 152.207.255.255                                                   

     Description:                                                          

     Payroll event added.                                                  
     FAUX_BANK                                                             

                                                                           
  -- ---------------------- ---- ---- ------ ----- ------------- ---- ---- -----

## **Step3: Review the event log of this payroll incident**

Event logs contain information related to the operation and usage of a
system. They can be utilized to identify suspicious activity, detect
vulnerabilities, and track users.

Find the **Event log** tab of the *Accounting exercise* spreadsheet.
Carefully review the event log of this incident to start your
investigation. Notice the *Event Type*, *Date*, *Time*, and *IP Address*
of the user in the log details.

Make **1-2 notes** of information that you learned about the user from
reviewing the *Event log* details. Add your notes to the **Notes**
column of the access control worksheet.

**Step4: Identify access control issues that led to the incident**

Log details tell you a lot about a specific moment in time. You can find
other useful details about an event by cross referencing that
information with other sources.

This business has a range of different employees. They all currently
manage company resources using a shared cloud drive.

Find the **Employee directory** tab of the *Accounting exercise*
spreadsheet. Compare the information found in the *Employee directory*
tab with the information in the *Event log* tab. Notice any similarities
between the details in the *Event log* and the details in the *Employee
directory*.

Then, list **1-2** issues that you discover with how the business
handles employee access in the **Issues** column of the *Access control
worksheet*.

**Step 5: Recommend mitigations that can prevent a future breach**

You've completed your accounting of the strange payment and discovered
flaws with how the business handles their information.

Find the **Recommendation(s)** column of the *Access control worksheet*.
Make **at least 2** recommendations of mitigations the business can
implement to prevent incidents like this in the future.

For example, one recommendation might be to have procedures in place to
revoke access to files when an employee is no longer with the company.

[Notes about the user:]{.mark}

The event log indicates that the user who initiated the deposit to the
unknown bank account is identified as \"Legal\\Administrator.\"

The event took place on 10/03/2023 at 8:29:57 AM, with the IP address
152.207.255.255. This information can be useful for further
investigation.

[Access control issue:]{.mark}

The primary access control issue identified is the excessive access
level granted to the \"Legal\\Administrator\" user. They had the ability
to initiate financial transactions, which seems beyond the scope of
their role.

Another issue is the lack of timely account review or deactivation. It
appears that the user\'s account was still active even though their
access level was inappropriate for the actions they took.

[Recommendation for access control mitigations:]{.mark}

Implement the principle of least privilege, which means that users
should have access only to the resources necessary for their job. Review
and restrict access rights for the \"Legal\\Administrator\" role to
prevent unauthorized financial transactions.

Establish a periodic access review process to ensure that user accounts
are regularly reviewed and adjusted as necessary. Accounts that are no
longer required or have inappropriate access levels should be promptly
deactivated.

These recommendations will help improve access controls, prevent similar
incidents, and enhance the overall security of the business.

Top of Form
